Even though our focus
is on data federation,
we should know that a graph is
not the only way to display data.
Two other commonly used
vehicles are text and tables.
In this video, we discuss the three
common vehicles and contrast them.
By the end of this video,
you should be able to determine when
it is appropriate use each of them.
The first one we would
like to discuss is text.
Text should be use primarily in two cases.
First, if you only have a few numbers,
displaying the numbers using text
may be the most effective method.
You can actually display
precise values in text.
Your audience really does not need graphs
to help them digest just a few numbers.
Second, if you have a really complex
dataset and relationships in the data,
tables and graphs may not be able to
express patterns and relationships well.
Tables and graphs can be limited in
that they really do not go beyond two or
three dimensions.
If you choose to use text, you are not
restrict to two or three dimensions.
Sometimes, text is used
together with tables and
graphs express important or complex ideas.
Infographic is a popular way to present
information quickly and clearly.
Text is often used as a primary way
to present data and infographics as,
typically, we only want to draw audience
attention to a few key statistics.
An example is an infographic
on global warming.
Note that only one data graph is used
where text is the primary way to
display data.
This is also true for
many other examples we can find.
Table is another popular
vehicle to display data.
In a table,
data is arranged in columns and rows.
A table has several
distinctive advantages.
First, it makes it easy to
look up individual values and
compare multiple values.
Second, it can also represent numbers
precisely, which should be contrasted with
most graphs, which cannot display data
precisely unless data labels are added.
Third, it is very easy to include several
different variables with different
units of measurement.
Finally, you can combine summary and
the detailed information in a table, which
is not always possible to do in graphs.
This table shows several different but
related variables nicely in a table.
It includes units sold,
sales a month, and a market share.
Notice that it is three variables
are in different units.
If we were to display this
information using graphs,
we may have to use multiple graphs.
Our focus in this module are data graphs.
Graphs have several
advantages of their own,
which explains why they are very popular.
First, graphs can present
patterns of the data,
something that's really
difficult to do with tables.
Because of that, graphs can also make
it easy to see the similarities and
differences between
multiple sets of values.
Finally, graphs can display large data
sets in a way that can be readily
perceived and understood.
A table with values becomes very
difficult to display and understand.
The same is not true for graphs.
In fact, in the era of big data,
graphs sometimes are generated from
millions or even billions of data points.
Many expert actually believes that
data visualization can be the last
step of analytics project
if it is sufficiently displays
the interesting aspect of the data.
To further contrast tables and
graphs, it is helpful to
think about several scenarios for the
sales data example we discussed before.
What if there are sales data for
multiple products that we need to display?
This typical is not a problem for tables.
We can simply add a few
columns to the table.
We may also do the same with graphs.
However, the task is trickier.
To start with, even one product will
potentially need multiple graphs, which
means that information can be a little
more scattered if we choose to use graphs.
Well, we can certainly display
multiple products on each graph,
and it may not work well if the scale of
the numbers is substantially different for
the different products.
What if sales for
one product is in billions,
whereas the other one is only in millions?
That is not to say that tables
are not always their own limitations.
If we have ten years of data, then we're
going to have a very long table and
it is probably not feasible anymore.
Displaying the information graphically
is only feasible method in that case.
A graph can also reveal patterns
that are hard to discover in tables,
such as sales trend and seasonality.
Text, graphs, and
tables are not mutually exclusive.
We can often combine them.
For example, for
really large datasets we can use graphs
to show patterns in the data, and
use tables for summary information,
possibly on multiple measurements.
We can then use text to
emphasize individual values or
explain complex patterns and ideas.